API/AddressQuery.md, before:

# Address Query

The "Address Query" endpoint and SRV configuration can be considered the only "required" portion of the opencap protocol. Address Query allows a wallet (client) to be able to take an alias as input and derive the appropriate crypto address from a server.

## Server Requirements

### 1. A SRV record on the alias's domain

The SRV points to the location where the host server's REST API is running.

The format of the SRV record is as follows:

```bash
_service._proto.name. TTL class SRV priority weight port target.
```

Where the following values are required:

| name    | value   |
| ------- | ------- |
| service | opencap |
| proto   | tcp     |
| class   | IN      |
| port    | 443     |

As an example:

```bash
_opencap._tcp.example.tld. 86400 IN SRV 5 12 443 cap.example.tld.
```

"cap.example.tld" describes where the host server's REST API is running.

For more information on SRV records view: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SRV_record#Record_format

It is ideal for the SRV record to be secured using DNSSEC to mitigate against man-in-the-middle attacks, but not required.

### 2. Host the following endpoint at the URL where the SRV points

#### GET /v1/addresses?alias={alias}&address_type={address_type}

No Authorization (Public method)

Returns the address(es) of the related domain and username. If the address_type parameter is included then only that address type is returned, otherwise an array containing all of the user's addresses is returned. The "extensions" field in the return value will contain optional superflous information about the address.

Each address_type has it's [own file](/AddressTypes/README.md) in this repo specifying the details and ID number.

The endpoint must be served over HTTPS on port 443.

It is ideal for the DNS record of the REST API be secured using DNSSEC to mitigate against man-in-the-middle attacks, but not required.

Request:

```javascript
GET /v1/addresses?alias=alice$domain.tld&address_type=100
```

Response:

The "extensions" object in the response is reserved for servers to be able to communicate extra data to clients they are familiar with. It is an optional field that the server can include if desired.

```javascript
200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
{
    "address_type": 100,
    "address": "1BvBMSEYstWetqTFn5Au4m4GFg7xJaNVN2",
    "extensions": {}
}
```

or

Request:

```javascript
GET /v1/addresses?alias=alice$domain.tld
```

Response:

```javascript
200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
[
    {
        "address_type": 100,
        "address": "1BvBMSEYstWetqTFn5Au4m4GFg7xJaNVN2",
        "extensions": {}
    },
    {
        "address_type": 101,
        "address": "3J98t1WpEZ73CNmQviecrnyiWrnqRhWNLy",
        "extensions": {}
    }
]
```

### Error Handling

Whenever an error occurs with the request, a non-200 error code is sent back along with a "message" that describes the error.

```javascript
Non-200 HTTP Code
Content-Type: application/json
{
    "message": "something bad happened",
}
```

## Wallet (Client) Requirements

To find the address for a given alias a client must first look up the SRV record for the domain. If the alias is "username$example.tld" then this would be done on linux in the following way:

```bash
dig SRV _opencap._tcp.example.tld
```

There are many [tools](/Tools.md) that can make this lookup simple using different frameworks and languages.

The format of the record is found [above](#1-a-srv-record-on-the-aliass-domain)

Once the URL of the host server is found, in this example "cap.example.tld", the following request can be made:

```
GET https://cap.example.tld/v1/addresses?alias={alias}&address_type={address_type}
```

See [above](#2-host-the-following-endpoint-at-the-url-where-the-srv-points) for the return payload structure.

The payload can then be parsed and the user of the wallet can decide which [address_type](/AddressTypes/README.md) (currency type and address version) to send to the recipient.

Commit message:

Udpate AddressQuery.md
added recommended extension fields for username and nickname

API/AddressQuery.md, after:

# Address Query

The "Address Query" endpoint and SRV configuration can be considered the only "required" portion of the opencap protocol. Address Query allows a wallet (client) to be able to take an alias as input and derive the appropriate crypto address from a server.

## Server Requirements

### 1. A SRV record on the alias's domain

The SRV points to the location where the host server's REST API is running.

The format of the SRV record is as follows:

```bash
_service._proto.name. TTL class SRV priority weight port target.
```

Where the following values are required:

| name    | value   |
| ------- | ------- |
| service | opencap |
| proto   | tcp     |
| class   | IN      |
| port    | 443     |

As an example:

```bash
_opencap._tcp.example.tld. 86400 IN SRV 5 12 443 cap.example.tld.
```

"cap.example.tld" describes where the host server's REST API is running.

For more information on SRV records view: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SRV_record#Record_format

It is ideal for the SRV record to be secured using DNSSEC to mitigate against man-in-the-middle attacks, but not required.

### 2. Host the following endpoint at the URL where the SRV points

#### GET /v1/addresses?alias={alias}&address_type={address_type}

No Authorization (Public method)

Returns the address(es) of the related domain and username. If the address_type parameter is included then only that address type is returned, otherwise an array containing all of the user's addresses is returned. The "extensions" field in the return value will contain optional superflous information about the address.

Each address_type has it's [own file](/AddressTypes/README.md) in this repo specifying the details and ID number.

The endpoint must be served over HTTPS on port 443.

It is ideal for the DNS record of the REST API be secured using DNSSEC to mitigate against man-in-the-middle attacks, but not required.

Request:

```javascript
GET /v1/addresses?alias=alice$domain.tld&address_type=100
```

Response:

The "extensions" object in the response is reserved for servers to be able to communicate extra data to clients they are familiar with. It is an optional field that the server can include if desired.

```javascript
200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
{
    "address_type": 100,
    "address": "1BvBMSEYstWetqTFn5Au4m4GFg7xJaNVN2",
    "extensions": {}
}
```

or

Request:

```javascript
GET /v1/addresses?alias=alice$domain.tld
```

Response:

```javascript
200 OK
Content-Type: application/json
[
    {
        "address_type": 100,
        "address": "1BvBMSEYstWetqTFn5Au4m4GFg7xJaNVN2",
        "extensions": {}
    },
    {
        "address_type": 101,
        "address": "3J98t1WpEZ73CNmQviecrnyiWrnqRhWNLy",
        "extensions": {}
    }
]
```

### Commonly used extensions

The extensions field is commonly used for additional profile information other than just a cryptocurrency address.
For the best user experience we must achieve cross implementation compatibility so it is recommended to use common field names.
As of now OpenCAP specifically recommends the following field names for an optional image as well as a nickname.
```javascript
"extensions": {
    "image": "john_smith_image_url.png",
    "nickname": "John Smith"
}
```

### Error Handling

Whenever an error occurs with the request, a non-200 error code is sent back along with a "message" that describes the error.

```javascript
Non-200 HTTP Code
Content-Type: application/json
{
    "message": "something bad happened",
}
```

## Wallet (Client) Requirements

To find the address for a given alias a client must first look up the SRV record for the domain. If the alias is "username$example.tld" then this would be done on linux in the following way:

```bash
dig SRV _opencap._tcp.example.tld
```

There are many [tools](/Tools.md) that can make this lookup simple using different frameworks and languages.

The format of the record is found [above](#1-a-srv-record-on-the-aliass-domain)

Once the URL of the host server is found, in this example "cap.example.tld", the following request can be made:

```
GET https://cap.example.tld/v1/addresses?alias={alias}&address_type={address_type}
```

See [above](#2-host-the-following-endpoint-at-the-url-where-the-srv-points) for the return payload structure.

The payload can then be parsed and the user of the wallet can decide which [address_type](/AddressTypes/README.md) (currency type and address version) to send to the recipient.
